MENDEL SOFTWARE LICENSE AGREEMENT

Name of software being licensed: MENDEL

THIS IS A LEGAL AGREEMENT BETWEEN YOU
(EITHER AS AN INDIVIDUAL OR ENTITY)
AND KENNETH L. LANGE. BY INSTALLING THIS
SOFTWARE, YOU ARE CONSENTING TO BE BOUND
BY AND ARE BECOMING A PARTY TO THIS AGREEMENT.
IF YOU DO NOT AGREE TO ALL OF THE TERMS OF
THIS AGREEMENT, DO NOT INSTALL MENDEL.

THIS IS A PERPETUAL LICENSE.

TERMS OF THE LICENSE:

FEES: You may download Mendel as often as
necessary, free of charge.

RESTRICTIONS: You may NOT

(a) copy, redistribute, post, or otherwise
enable or permit other individuals to obtain the
MENDEL software package except via official
MENDEL distribution sites, such as
https://openmendel.github.io/ClassicMendel; or

(b) modify, translate, reverse engineer,
decompile, disassemble, or create derivative
works based on MENDEL; or

(c) rent, lease, grant a security interest in,
or otherwise transfer rights to Mendel; or

(d) remove or put any proprietary notices or
labels on MENDEL.

TITLE: Title, ownership rights, and intellectual
property rights in MENDEL shall remain with
Kenneth Lange. MENDEL is protected by copyright
and other intellectual property laws and by
international treaties.

DISCLAIMER OF WARRANTY: MENDEL IS PROVIDED AS IS
WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND. KENNETH LANGE MAKES
NO REPRESENTATIONS AND EXTENDS NO WARRANTIES OF
ANY KIND, EITHER EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING
BUT NOT LIMITED TO WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE, AND
NONINFRINGEMENT. THE ENTIRE RISK ARISING OUT OF
THE USE OR PERFORMANCE OF MENDEL AND ITS
DOCUMENTATION REMAINS WITH LICENSEE. IN NO EVENT
SHALL KENNETH LANGE BE LIABLE FOR ANY
CONSEQUENTIAL, INCIDENTAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT,
SPECIAL, PUNITIVE, OR OTHER DAMAGES WHATSOEVER
(INCLUDING, WITHOUT LIMITATION, DAMAGES FOR LOSS
OF BUSINESS PROFITS, BUSINESS INTERRUPTION, LOSS
OF BUSINESS INFORMATION OR OTHER PECUNIARY LOSS)
ARISING OUT OF THIS AGREEMENT OR THE USE OF OR
INABILITY TO USE MENDEL.

INSTALLATION: LICENSEE warrants and represents
that a competent System Administrator will
install MENDEL, and that the System Administrator
will review all relevant documentation and
release notes included with MENDEL prior to
installation. Installation is permitted on
single-user computers or multi-user computational
clusters that the System Administrator manages.

USE: Use is permitted on single-user computers
or multi-user computational clusters,
by the LICENSEE or authorized LICENSEE's
colleagues within the same institution.
LICENSEE agrees to provide KENNETH LANGE
with a report of any errors encountered in
LICENSEE'S installed MENDEL systems.

RISK: The entire risk as to the use and
performance of MENDEL is assumed by LICENSEE.
LICENSEE shall defend, indemnify and hold
harmless KENNETH LANGE AND HIS EMPLOYER,
THE UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA, for and against
any and all claims, demands, damages, losses,
and expenses of any kind (including but not
limited to attorneys' fees), relating to or
arising from any use or disposition by LICENSEE
or its transferees of MENDEL.

MAINTENANCE: Neither KENNETH LANGE nor the
UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA is obligated to provide
maintenance, technical support, interpretation
of results, or updates for MENDEL.

TERMINATION: This license will terminate
automatically if LICENSEE fails to comply with the
limitations described herein. On termination,
LICENSEE must destroy all copies of the Software
and Documentation.

ACKNOWLEDGEMENT: LICENSEE agrees to make a good
faith effort to ensure that for all 
LICENSEE'S installed MENDEL systems,
all users of these MENDEL systems
reference MENDEL in every publication
that employs results generated by MENDEL.
See the bottom of every summary output file
generated by MENDEL for the preferred citations
to use.
